# Astroides_transcriptome

This repository is about comparative transcriptomic on the scleractinian coral Astroides calycularis.

Three different directories are different based on the script language, but these also correspond to the different stages of the comparative coral transcriptome study.

The first directory contains scripts written in bash, most of which are designed to be run on a remote server. The script architectureProjectSetting allows to create automatically the architecture (the set of folders and their layout) of the project, the majority of the scripts running locally being dependent on this architecture. md5Check allows to check the md5 hash of the raw data containing the sequences, in order to verify that these last ones are integrated before starting the pre-processing. fastqCheck allows to run the fastQC tool on raw sequences, either on raw sequences or on trim sequences after using the Trimmomatic tool. trimScript allows to run the Trimmomatic tool on raw sequences, taking into account the type of coral (juvenile or adult), the type of file (fasta or txt) and the type of sequencing (single end or paired end). trinityTranscriptome allows to launch the Trinity tool, taking into account an input text file containing the path to the sequences used to reconstruct the de novo transcriptome. Finally, kallistoQuant allows to run the Kallisto tool on both types of corals (adults and juveniles), three different types of transcriptomes having been built within this project, as well as the type of sequence (single end and paired end).

The second directory contains a set of R scripts specific to the use of the DESeq2 package, as well as a set of text files allowing the import of data from Kallisto using the tximport package. The tx2gene files are also text files allowing to link a transcript to its gene of origin, and are issued from the reconstruction of the de novo transcriptome with the Trinity tool. Each R script contains the following structure: import of packages, data, pre-filtering of data, then calculation of the differential expression of genes. This differential expression is then expressed for a set of contrasts (comparison between two conditions) determined by the objectives of the study. After obtaining the differentially expressed genes for each contrast, they are visualized using MA-plot and volcano plot. Exploratory graphs are then made to explore the global results, i.e. a PCA as well as Venn diagrams, then a permanova is made to observe the potential statistical differences between the factors conditioning the data set. The results of the contrasts are then exported as CSV files.

The third directory is dedicated to Python scripts. These scripts are mostly dedicated to the exploitation of DESeq2 and Ontologizer results, except averageLength_SD_bioanalyzer, whose function is to obtain the average size of fragments (RNA or DNA) as well as the standard deviation of this size from the results of a Bioanalyzer instrument. Those informations is needed to run the bash script kallistoQuant in single end mode, and this script allows the user to get them quickly.

